# Deep-Learning-and-Convolutional-Neural-Networks

Deep Learning is a technique for machine learning that creates artificial neural networks to simulate the human brain's structure and function. In fact, deep learning uses a large number of hidden nonlinear processing layers to extract data characteristics or features and turn the data into various levels of representation. deep learning is distinct from conventional "shallow learning" because hierarchical abstraction and representations are learned at much deeper levels. this learning technique is a pioneering method for processing large amounts of data, since as it evaluates more data, the efficiency of the model improves. the model becomes more expert at identifying even unknown patterns among the data as the data increases. significant progress has been made in recent years of deep learning in the areas of computer vision and natural language processing. a deep learning neural network built to process organized arrays of data such as images is a convolutional neural network, or CNN. In computer vision, conventional neural networks are commonly used and have become the state of the art for many visual applications, such as image classification, and have also been popular in the processing of natural language for text classification. a convolutional neural network, mostly with more than 8 layers, is a feed-forward neural network. convolutional neural networks include several convolution layers, each able to recognize more sophisticated shapes, laying on top of each other. the use of convolutional layers in a CNN represents the human visual cortex structure, where a sequence of layers analyze a received object and gradually define more complex characteristics and features.
